a man named dalton russell sits in an
unidentified cell and narrates
how he has committed the perfect robbery
in new york masked robbers dressed as
painters and using variants of the name
steve as aliases
seize control of a manhattan bank and
take the patrons and employees hostage
they divide the hostages into groups and
hold them in different rooms
forcing them to don painter's clothes
identical to their own
the robbers rotate the hostages among
various rooms
and occasionally insert themselves
covertly into the groups
they also take turns working on an
unspecified project involving
demolishing the floor in one of the bank
storage rooms
police surround the bank and detectives
keith frazier and bill mitchell take
charge of the negotiations russell the
leader of the robbers
demands food and the police supply them
with pizzas whose boxes include
listening devices
the bugs pick up a language that a
worker identifies as albanian
when arthur case chairman of the board
of directors and founder of the bank
learns of the robbery taking place he
hires fixer madeleine white
white arranges a conversation with
russell who allows her to enter the bank
and inspect the contents of the box
which includes documents from nazi
germany
white tells russell that case will pay
him a substantial sum
if he destroys the contents of the box
frazier demands to inspect the hostages
and russell takes him on a tour of the
bank as he is being shown out
frazier attacks russell but is
restrained by another of the robbers
afterward he explains that he
deliberately tried to provoke russell
and judges
that the man is not a killer however
this is seemingly disproven
when the robbers stage an elaborate but
ultimately fake
execution of a hostage the execution
prompts an emergency services unit team
into action
they plan to storm the bank and use
rubber bullets to knock out those inside
frasier discovers that the robbers have
planted a listening device on the police
aware of the police plans the robbers
detonate smoke grenades
remove their disguises and exit the bank
with the hostages
a search of the bank reveals the robbers
weapons were plastic
replicas they find props that show
that the hostage execution was in fact
faked and no money or valuables appear
to have been stolen
with no way to identify the suspects and
unsure
if a crime has even been committed
frazier's superior orders him to drop
the case
frazier however searches the bank's
records and finds that safe deposit box
number 392 has never appeared on any
record since the bank's founding in
1948.
white confronts case who admits that the
box contained diamonds and a ring that
he had taken from a jewish friend whom
he had betrayed to the nazis
russell repeats his opening monologue
while hiding behind a fake wall the
robbers had constructed inside the bank
supply room
he emerges a week after the robbery with
the contents of case's safe deposit box
including incriminating documents and
several bags of diamonds
on his way out he bumps into frasier who
does not recognize him
he exits the bank and enters a van
filled with his conspirators
some of whom had been questioned by the
police
when frasier opens the safe deposit box
he finds the ring and the note from
russell
the treads follow the ring frazier
confronts case and urges white
to contact the office of war crimes
issues at the state department about
cases war crimes
at home frasier finds a loose diamond
frazier realizes that russell slipped
the diamond into his pocket
when they collided during russell's
escape from the bank
you